# RNA-Sequencing P

## Sample Collection 
Approximately 40 fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) were collected from supermarket fruit over the summer each year for three consecutive years (between 2021 and 2023) in Dairsie, Scotland (56.3466° N, 2.9481° W). Flies were separated by sex into plastic vials with standard food medium and yeast in an incubator that was set at 2X°C with a 12h light-dark cycle  until they were ready to be processed. 

## Sample Preparation
Flies were processed either dead by flash-freezing and stored in a -80°C freezer in RNAlater™-ICE Frozen Tissue Transition Solution or kept alive. If alive, individual flies were transferred either directly into an Eppendorf with 300 µL of TRIzol and homogenised using a handheld grinder (Cole-Parmer® Motorized Pestle Mixer) or into a 1.5 mL RNAse-free RINO® screw-cap tube filled with a mixture of 0.5-1 mm zirconium oxide beads. One of two different homogenization protocols were used with the Bullet Blender® X24: (1) 500µL of TRIzol was added to each tube, homogenised at speed 12 for at least 3 minutes and incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes, or (2) fresh flies were homogenised alive at speed 12 for 3 minutes, 300 µL of TRIzol was added and samples were returned to the Bullet Blender® for an additional three minutes on speed 10 (see a modified Insect [light and hard] Bullet Blender® homogenization protocol). All tubes were visually inspected and if homogenization was incomplete, another homogenization step was repeated at a higher speed. 
2.13 RNA Extraction Protocol

After homogenization, samples were centrifuged at 12,000 x g at 4°C for 10 minutes. The supernatant was removed from the exoskeleton and transferred into a new tube, where 200 µL of chloroform was added.  Each sample was vortexed for 20 seconds. After incubating at room temperature for 3 minutes, they were vortexed again for 20 seconds and again incubated at room temperature for 3 more minutes. Next, samples were centrifuged at 12,000 x g at 4°C for 27 minutes, whereafter approximately 300 µL of the colourless upper phase was transferred to a fresh RNAse free tube. An equal volume of 70% ethanol (mixed with DEPC -treated water) was added, the samples were vortexed and inverted and approximately 700 µL were transferred into a spin cartridge. Samples were centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 15 seconds, the flow through was discarded, and this step repeated until all of the sample was processed. After the addition of 700 µL of Wash Buffer 1, the sample was centrifuge at 12,000 x g for 15 seconds and the flow through was discarded. Then 500 µL of Wash Buffer 2 was added, the sample was incubated for 1 minute and then centrifuged again at 12,000 x g for 15 seconds. After the flow through was discarded, this step was repeated again. To dry the membrane, each sample was centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 1 minute. Finally, 20-35 µL of DEPC- treated water was added to the centre of the spin cartridge, incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes and centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 2 minutes. All RNA samples were stored at -80°C.
A total of 32 individuals (five or six individuals for each sex, for three years) were sequenced (Plant and Animal Eurkayotic mRNA [WOBI]) by Novogene (Cambridge) (see Supplementary Table). Standard RNA quality control and mRNA library preparation (with poly A enrichment) were carried out, and 10 samples  were sequenced either by NovaSeq or Illumina Sequencing PE150 (12 G raw data per sample).
